TypeScript (#1819)
enkidevs/curriculum: typescript/introduction/intro-typescript/why-typescript.md

---
author: kapnobatai136

type: normal

category: must-know

aspects:
  - introduction

---

# Why TypeScript?

---
## Content

The main feature, as its name suggests, is that it allows the use of *static types*. 

The static in this context means that types are checked by looking at the written code *without needing to run it*. 

In other words, TypeScript checks your code by making sure you use the same names and shapes where you said you would.

You can also think of it as a **spellchecker for JavaScript**.

This is useful because making sure that the same types of data are used throughout the code can help avoid bugs. It makes the code consistent, and less prone to typos.

It also makes the development faster because you can catch problems early on. 

> Since the code doesn't need to run to be type-checked (remember, static types), your editor can integrate with TypeScript and underline in red any type mismatches in the code as you're writing it. This means you write safer code from the start.
> 

Reviewer: We can add an image here:

![ts-safer-code](https://img.enkipro.com/1dca4c660ac1affdf9e903db249599ef.png)

```suggestion
Since the code doesn't need to run to be type-checked (remember, static types), your editor can integrate with TypeScript and underline in red any type mismatches in the code as you're writing it. This means you write safer code from the start.

![ts-safer-code](https://img.enkipro.com/1dca4c660ac1affdf9e903db249599ef.png)
```

---
author: kapnobatai136

type: normal

category: must-know

aspects:
  - introduction

---

# Why TypeScript?

---
## Content

The main feature, as its name suggests, is that it allows the use of *static types*. 

The static in this context means that types are checked by looking at the written code *without needing to run it*. 

In other words, TypeScript checks your code by making sure you use the same names and shapes where you said you would.

You can also think of it as a **spellchecker for JavaScript**.

This is useful because making sure that the same types of data are used throughout the code can help avoid bugs. It makes the code consistent, and less prone to typos.

> It also makes the development faster because you can catch problems early on. 

Reviewer 2: This is not necessarily true since coming up with types is also time consuming 😅

Reviewer: Adding on to what @Loopiezlol suggested

```suggestion
It can also speed up development because you can catch problems early on.
```

> Since the code doesn't need to run to be type-checked (remember, static types), your editor can integrate with TypeScript and underline in red any type mismatches in the code as you're writing it. This means you write safer code from the start.

Reviewer 3: Underline in red is very theme/editor dependent statement 

```suggestion
Since the code doesn't need to run to be type-checked (remember, static types), your editor can integrate with TypeScript and highlight any type mismatches in the code as you're writing it. This means you write safer code from the start.
```

Reviewer: That's a good point. 

```suggestion
Since the code doesn't need to run to be type-checked (remember, static types), your editor can integrate with TypeScript and display any type mismatches in the code as you're writing it. This means you write safer code from the start.
```

> ![ts-safer-code](https://img.enkipro.com/1dca4c660ac1affdf9e903db249599ef.png)

Reviewer 3: this image would look really bad in dark mode

> Since TypeScript is introduced as another layer on top of JavaScript, it also allows us to use the latest JavaScript features and handles the conversion for old platforms behind the scenes.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, TS team is pretty strict about rejecting features not accepted by ES community.
Look how the massacred my boy https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/issues/9

> Since TypeScript is introduced as another layer on top of JavaScript, it also allows us to use the latest JavaScript features and handles the conversion for old platforms behind the scenes.

Reviewer: What made you think if this? Do you maybe have a suggestion in mind how we can add it without introducing a lot more explanation?

> Since TypeScript is introduced as another layer on top of JavaScript, it also allows us to use the latest JavaScript features and handles the conversion for old platforms behind the scenes.

Reviewer 4: optional chaining is supported by TS 3.7 & is in ES stage 4, but it's no in any official releases of javascript https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_versions.asp

> Since TypeScript is introduced as another layer on top of JavaScript, it also allows us to use the latest JavaScript features and handles the conversion for old platforms behind the scenes.

Reviewer: Optional chaining is in ES2020. (Note that W3 schools is not a credible source)

> Since TypeScript is introduced as another layer on top of JavaScript, it also allows us to use the latest JavaScript features and handles the conversion for old platforms behind the scenes.

Reviewer: Anything in Stage 4 by default is approved to be released as an ESNext version

> Since TypeScript is introduced as another layer on top of JavaScript, it also allows us to use the latest JavaScript features and handles the conversion for old platforms behind the scenes.

Reviewer: I do agree with both of your positions though, we should mention that TS is ES-compliant because it aims to maintain full inter-operability with JS (which is ES-compliant)

> Since TypeScript is introduced as another layer on top of JavaScript, it also allows us to use the latest JavaScript features and handles the conversion for old platforms behind the scenes.

Reviewer 3: If only ES could move faster. I'm wanting for extension functions for 3 years now.

---
## Practice

TypeScript requires your code to run and produce an output before it can check for types.

???

* False
* True

---
## Revision

TypeScript uses a ??? type system.

* static
* dynamic
* runtime

> * duck

Reviewer: What's the improvement here?
